Core asset and collection guide (#1)
L0STE/developer-content: content/courses/tokens-and-nfts/nfts-with-metaplex-core.md

  - Explain Collections and how do they differ between the Core Program and the Token Metadata Program
  - Explain the role of the Metaplex Core program
  - Create and update a Collection using the Metaplex JS SDK
  - Create and update Assets using the Metaplex JS SDK
description:
  "How to create NFTs in TypeScript with Metaplex Core program and Irys
  permanent storage service."
tags:
  - quickstart
  - metaplex
  - typescript
keywords:
- typescript
- npm
- yarn
- package
- tutorial
- digital assets
- intro to solana nfts
- blockchain developer
- blockchain tutorial
- web3 developer
---

### Summary

- **Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)** are Digital Assets with 0 decimals, and 
  a maximum supply of 1
- **Metadata** attaches additional properties to Assets and Collection. 
  Metadata includes the token name and a link to an offchain JSON file. 
  This JSON file contains links to artwork and other media files, any 
  special traits the NFT has, and more.
- The [Metaplex Core Program](https://developers.metaplex.com/core) is an 
  onchain program that sheds the complexity and technical debt of previous 
  standards and provides a clean and simple core spec for digital assets 

>   using a single account design

Reviewer: I feel like this summary is misleading at the start due to saying what an nft is and then stating actually we are not doing that.

Should probably be an introduction to Core and then have a differences area which shows why Core has an advantage over Token Metadata.

with an additional metadata account associated with each token mint and 
created using both the Token Program and the Metaplex Token Metadata Program.

However, with the introduction of the new Metaplex Core Program, NFTs 
have their own program and standard that leverage a single account design 
and has a flexible plugin system that that enables developers to natively 
modify asset behavior and functionality

In this lesson, we'll explore how Core Assets are represented and demonstrate 
how to create and update them using the `mpl-core` npm module.

#### NFTs on Solana

All NFTs must meet the following characteristics:

1. Have 0 decimals, so it cannot be divided into parts.
2. Have a supply of 1, so only 1 of these tokens exists.
3. Not have a mint authority to ensure that the supply never changes.
4. Have an associated **metadata** to store things like a name, images, etc.

While all this properties were previously achievable with a combination of 
the SPL Token Program and the Metaplex Token Metadata Program, it came with 
a big overhead and lots of inefficiencies for a market as big as NFTs and Digital 
Asset in general.

> This is exaclty why the **Metaplex Core Program** was created!

Reviewer: This again feels like you are stating THIS is what NFTs are, but we are not doing that. 

This feels like we are teaching more about old NFT's and stating we are actually not doing this.

Feel there should be a differences area like above the above comment to.

  image.
- Assets are now a single account model and design that don't rely on additional
  accounts such as Associated Token Accounts or Metadata Accounts. Instead, when 
  a Core Assets is created, the Metaplex Core Program stores ownership metadata 
  (like the URI pointing to an offchain `.json` that follow a [certain standard](https://developers.metaplex.com/token-metadata/token-standard)), 
  directly on the Asset.
- Both Assets and Collections can hook into lifecycle events, such as create
  transfer and burn, allowing custom behaviors via **Plugins**. For example, 
  thanks to plugin, royalty enforcement or onchain attributes can be added with 
  a single instruction and no additional code.

In the following sections, we'll cover the basics of using the `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 
package with Umi to prepare off-chain metadata, create and update Assets, and add 
them into a collection. For more information about `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 
visit the [Metaplex Developer Docs](https://developers.metaplex.com/core).

#### Umi

Umi is a framework built by Metaplex for registering JS/TS clients that interact with 

> on-chain programs. While it can create clients for various programs, it's most commonly 

Reviewer: Umi can not create clients.

used with all the Metaplex program.

> **Note**: Umi uses different implementations for common web3.js concepts, such as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Umi uses different implementation types for common web3.js functions and concepts, such as 
```

with it. While this doesn't have to be an image, most Assets have an image associated 
with them.

Preparing and uploading an image involves converting to a buffer first. You can convert
the file to a [generic file](https://developers.metaplex.com/umi/storage#generic-files) 
using the `createGenericFile()` function and finally uploading it to the designated 
Storage Driver.

The `GenericFile` type allows Umi to support different file variations despite the 
difference of browser files and local file system files i.e. those on your computer.

In action, uploading an image named `random-image.png` from your computer would take the following steps:

1. Reading the file using `readFile` into a buffer.

2. Creating a generic file type with the files MIME Type from the buffer and filePath.

3. Uploading file to designated storage provider.

```typescript
let filePath = "random-image.png";

const buffer = await fs.readFile(filePath);
let file = createGenericFile(buffer, filePath, {
  // chose the correct file MIME type https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types
  contentType: "image/jpeg",
});

> const [image] = await umi.uploader.upload([file]);

Reviewer: You haven't configured an uploader here up to this point to be able to upload anything?

most cases, you should follow the [NFT standard](https://developers.metaplex.com/token-metadata/token-standard#the-non-fungible-standard)
to ensure compatibility with wallets, programs, and applications.

To create the metadata, use the `uploadJson()` method provided by the SDK. This method 
accepts a metadata object and returns a uri that points to the uploaded metadata.

```typescript
const metadata = {
  name: 'My NFT',
  description: 'This is an NFT on Solana',
  image,
  external_url: 'https://example.com',
  properties: {
    files: [
      {
        uri: imageUri[0],
        type: 'image/jpeg',
      },
    ],
    category: 'image',
  },
}

const uri = await umi.uploader.uploadJson(metadata);
```

#### Creating the Collection

Once the metadata is uploaded, you can finally create a Collection to group assets. 

The `createCollection` method allows you to create a collection with the provided data

```typescript
const collection = generateSigner(umi)
console.log("\nCollection Address: ", collection.publicKey.toString())

const { signature, result } = await createCollection(umi, {
  collection,
  name: 'My Collection',

>   uri: collectionUri,

Reviewer: Haven't described how/where to upload or where the `collectionuri` variable has come from.

}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

The `sendAndConfirm` method is what takes care of signing our transaction and sending

> it. It also provides other options to set pre-flight checks and our desired commitment 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it. It also provides available options such as setting pre-flight checks and our desired commitment level
```

const asset = await fetchAsset(umi, publickey("CORE_ASSET_ADDRESS"));
const collection = await fetchCollection(umi, publicKey("CORE_ASSET_ADDRESS"));

const { signature, result } = await update(umi, {
  asset,
  collection,
  newUpdateAuthority: updateAuthority("Collection", [publicKey("NEW_CORE_COLLECTION_ADDRESS")])
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

**Note**: We can use the same method to add the Asset to a Collection if it isn't part of a 
collection currently.

A noted difference from the `token-metadata` program is that it not impossible to create an immutable 
`Asset` using the `create` method. The only way to make an asset immutable is to change the `updateAuthority` 
to `None` in a futher update.

```typescript
const asset = await fetchAsset(umi, publickey("CORE_ASSET_ADDRESS"));
const collection = await fetchCollection(umi, publicKey("CORE_ASSET_ADDRESS"));

const { signature, result } = await update(umi, {
  asset,
  collection,
  newUpdateAuthority: updateAuthority("None")
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

**Note**: any fields you don't include in the call to `updateV1` will stay the same, by design.

> ### Lab

Reviewer: Didn't you meantion we were scrapping the lab section?

Going to hold off reviewing this section till I know.

Author: I think we should leave it here since it's done and letting them ask us to delete if they don't want it in the PR

Reviewer: I thought you said that they asked us to not add it already?

  metadata, such as the collection name and collection image.
- Assets are now a single account model and design that don't rely on additional
  accounts such as Associated Token Accounts or Metadata Accounts. Instead, when 
  a Core Assets is created, the Metaplex Core Program stores the ownership and metadata 
  directly on the Asset.
- Both Assets and Collections can integrate with lifecycle events such as creation, transfer, 
  and burning, enabling custom behaviors through Plugins. For instance, plugins allow features 
  like royalty enforcement or on-chain attributes to be added with a single instruction, 
  eliminating the need for extra code.

In the following sections, we'll cover the basics of using the `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 
SDK with Umi to prepare off-chain metadata, create and update Assets, and add 
them into a collection. For more information about `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 
visit the [Metaplex Developer Docs](https://developers.metaplex.com/core).

#### Umi

Umi is a framework built by Metaplex that can register JS/TS clients built with 
Kinobi/Codama that interact with on-chain programs. While it can interface with 

> clients from various programs, it's most commonly used with all the Metaplex program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
clients from various programs, it's most commonly used with all the Metaplex programs.
```

description:
  "How to create NFTs in TypeScript with Metaplex Core program and Irys
  permanent storage service."
tags:
  - quickstart
  - metaplex
  - typescript
keywords:
- typescript
- npm
- yarn
- package
- tutorial
- digital assets
- intro to solana nfts
- blockchain developer
- blockchain tutorial
- web3 developer
---

### Summary

- **Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs)** are onchain digital assets. They are 
  indivisible, meaning they cannot be split into fractional parts, and 
  unique.
- **Metadata** attaches additional properties to Assets and Collection. 
  Metadata includes the token name and a link to an offchain JSON file. 
  This JSON file contains links to artwork and other media files, any 
  special traits the NFT has, and more.
- The [Metaplex Core Program](https://developers.metaplex.com/core) is an 
  onchain program that sheds the complexity and technical debt of previous 
  standards and provides a clean and simple core spec for digital assets 
  using a single account design

### Lesson

Solana Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) used to be represented as SPL tokens 

In this lesson, we'll explore how Core Assets are represented and demonstrate 

> how to create and update them using the mpl-core npm module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this lesson, we'll explore how Core Assets are represented and demonstrate 
how to create and update them using the mpl-core npm package.
```

You use NPM packages. We could even refer to this as the Metaplex mpl-core SDK.

Solana Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) used to be represented as SPL tokens 
with an additional metadata account associated with each token mint and 

> created using both the Token Program and the Metaplex Token Metadata Program.

Reviewer: NFTs are still represented by SPL Tokens and other programs/account types. Using `used to be` is past tense like they no longer do, which is incorrect.

> However, with the introduction of the new Metaplex Core Program, NFTs 
> have their own program and standard that leverage a single account design 
> and has a flexible plugin system that that enables developers to natively 
> modify asset behavior and functionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the introduction of the new Metaplex Core Program and Core NFT Digital Asset standard NFTs can break free from the original multi account design and start to leverage the single account model that greatly enhances developer experiance. 
```

Author: I'm going to leave it as the original since it's more concise and straight to the point

In this lesson, we'll explore how Core Assets are represented and demonstrate 

> how to create and update them using the `mpl-core` npm module.

Reviewer: npm package, or swap terminolgy to javascript sdk based language instead

#### NFTs on Solana

All NFTs characteristics were previously achievable with a combination of 
the SPL Token Program and the Metaplex Token Metadata Program by setting the
following boundaries:

1. Have 0 decimals, so it cannot be divided into parts.
2. Have a supply of 1, so only 1 of these tokens exists.
3. Not have a mint authority to ensure that the supply never changes.

> 4. Have an associated **metadata** to store things like a name, images, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The mint having a value of 0 decimals, so it cannot be divided into parts.
2. The mint having a max supply of 1, so only 1 of these tokens exists.
3. Revoking the mint authority of the mint to ensure that the supply never changes.
4. Have an associated **metadata account** to store state data such as, name, uri, royalty percentage, etc.
5. Various other accounts including, Master Edition accounts, Token Record accounts, Edition accounts.
```

Author: Added point 5 and kept the rest the same since it's more concise and fluent

Reviewer: You give no context as to what has 0 decimals, what has a supply of 1, which in this case is the mint itself which makes an "nft" what it is. Technically an nft exists without Token metadata etc...

> This came with a big overhead and lots of inefficiencies for a market as big as 
> NFTs and Digital Asset in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This came with a big overhead and lots of inefficiencies due to the amount of accounts and data needed for a market as big as NFTs and Digital Assets in general.
```

Author: It's implied that all the previous characteristic were the big overhead. We shouldn't add words that stop the flow of the reading and just make the tutorial longer and more verbose

Thanks to the **Metaplex Core Program**, all this characteristics are now enshrined 

> at the protocol level!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the **Metaplex Core Program** and it's newest Digital Asset design most of these tech burdens have been eliminated at the protocol level.
```

Author: Same as previous point

#### The Metaplex Core program

The [Metaplex Core Program](https://developers.metaplex.com/core) is the new 

> standard for NFTs and Digital Assets on Solana

Reviewer: The Metaplex Core Program is the `newest NFT Digital Asset standard from Metaplex`.

The from Metaplex is important. We can't say it's the newest in general as there could be others that probably been made since, no mater how small they all.

[image needed (?) ...]

- Differently from the Token Metadata Program, Collection are different accounts,
  model that requires different data, from the Asset they group together. Collections 
  store only collection specific metadata such as collection name and collection 

>   image.

Reviewer: This reads a bit oddly, can this be reviewed.

- Assets are now a single account model and design that don't rely on additional
  accounts such as Associated Token Accounts or Metadata Accounts. Instead, when 
  a Core Assets is created, the Metaplex Core Program stores ownership metadata 
  (like the URI pointing to an offchain `.json` that follow a [certain standard](https://developers.metaplex.com/token-metadata/token-standard)), 

>   directly on the Asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assets are now a single account model and design that no longer rely on additional
  external accounts and programs such as the Associated Token Accounts from the SPL Token Program. Instead, when 
  a Core Assets is created, the Metaplex Core Program stores the ownership and metadata directly on the Asset.
```

Don't think the external link was needed here.

- Both Assets and Collections can hook into lifecycle events, such as create
  transfer and burn, allowing custom behaviors via **Plugins**. For example, 
  thanks to plugin, royalty enforcement or onchain attributes can be added with 

>   a single instruction and no additional code.

Reviewer: This one confuses me. Does that example relate to the previous sentance?

In the following sections, we'll cover the basics of using the `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 

> package with Umi to prepare off-chain metadata, create and update Assets, and add 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following sections, we'll cover the basics of using the `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 
SDK with Umi to prepare off-chain metadata, create and update Assets, and add 
```

as you didn't mention npm this time I would probably go with the client SDK term maybe. Open to discuss this one.

them into a collection. For more information about `metaplex-foundation/mpl-core` 
visit the [Metaplex Developer Docs](https://developers.metaplex.com/core).

#### Umi

> Umi is a framework built by Metaplex for registering JS/TS clients that interact with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Umi is a framework built by Metaplex that can register JS/TS clients built with Kinobi/Codama that interact with 
```

import { createUmi } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi-bundle-defaults";
import { clusterApiUrl } from "@solana/web3.js";

const umi = createUmi(clusterApiUrl("devnet"));
```

Next, set the identity for your Umi instance (the keypair what will be used to sign 
transactions) and load the necessary plugins, in this case, the `mplCore` plugin.

```typescript
import { mplCore } from "@metaplex-foundation/mpl-core";
import { keypairIdentity } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi";
import { createUmi } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi-bundle-defaults";
import { getKeypairFromFile } from "@solana-developers/helpers";
import { promises as fs } from "fs";
import { clusterApiUrl } from "@solana/web3.js";

const umi = createUmi(clusterApiUrl("devnet")).use(mplCore());

// load keypair from local file system
// See https://github.com/solana-developers/helpers?tab=readme-ov-file#get-a-keypair-from-a-keypair-file
const localKeypair = await getKeypairFromFile();

// convert to Umi compatible keypair
const umiKeypair = umi.eddsa.createKeypairFromSecretKey(localKeypair.secretKey);

// load the MPL metadata program plugin and assign a signer to our umi instance
umi.use(keypairIdentity(umiKeypair));

> ```

Reviewer: Do we really need web3js here? It's a uneeded package as I believe all it's being used for is the get the default cluster uris. I would be in favor of just listing them instead and removing web3js as it's entirelly uneeded for nft creations.

#### Uploading images

Before creating an Asset, you must prepare and upload any assets you plan to associate 

> with it. While this doesn't have to be an image, most Assets have an image associated 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before creating an Asset, you must prepare and upload any assets you plan to associate 
with it such as images, animation files, and off chain metadata.
```

with them.

Preparing and uploading an image involves converting to a buffer first. You can convert
the file to a [generic file](https://developers.metaplex.com/umi/storage#generic-files) 
using the `createGenericFile()` function and finally uploading it to the designated 
Storage Driver.

The `GenericFile` type allows Umi to support different file variations despite the 
difference of browser files and local file system files i.e. those on your computer.

In action, uploading an image named `random-image.png` from your computer would take the following steps:

> 1. Reading the file using `readFile` into a buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reading the file using `fs.readFile()` into a buffer.
```

  // chose the correct file MIME type https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types
  contentType: "image/jpeg",
});
const [image] = await umi.uploader.upload([file]);
```

The function will return the uri where the image is stored.

#### Uploading the metadata

After uploading the image, it's time to upload the offchain JSON metadata using the 
`uploadJson()` method. This will return a uri where the JSON metadata is stored.

Remember, the offchain portion of the metadata includes things like the image uri we
just generated as well as additional information like the name and description of the 
Asset. While you can technically include anything you'd like in this JSON object, in 
most cases, you should follow the [NFT standard](https://developers.metaplex.com/token-metadata/token-standard#the-non-fungible-standard)
to ensure compatibility with wallets, programs, and applications.

To create the metadata, use the `uploadJson()` method provided by the SDK. This method 
accepts a metadata object and returns a uri that points to the uploaded metadata.

```typescript
const metadata = {
  name: 'My NFT',
  description: 'This is an NFT on Solana',

>   image,

Reviewer: I reckon add a // comment about this detailing it's the URI of the image stored online.

  external_url: 'https://example.com',
  properties: {
    files: [
      {
        uri: imageUri[0],
        type: 'image/jpeg',
      },
    ],
    category: 'image',
  },
}

const uri = await umi.uploader.uploadJson(metadata);
```

Now that you know how to create the metadata for your Collections and Assets, remember to 
modify the values as you see fit and use the response to fill out the `uri` field. 

#### Creating the Collection

> Once the metadata is uploaded, you can finally create a Collection to group assets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have uploaded the appropiate files to respresent your Core Collection (image, metadata.json) you can finally create the Core Collection itself.
```

> The `createCollection` method allows you to create a collection with the provided data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `createCollection` method allows you to create a Core Collection with the provided data
```

Author: Same as before, we're talking about Core. There is no reason why we would create a Token Metadata collection

```typescript
const collection = generateSigner(umi)
console.log("\nCollection Address: ", collection.publicKey.toString())

const { signature, result } = await createCollection(umi, {
  collection,
  name: 'My Collection',
  uri: collectionUri,
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

The `sendAndConfirm` method is what takes care of signing our transaction and sending
it. It also provides available options such as setting pre-flight checks and our desired 
commitment level for the transaction, which defaults to `confirmed` if not provided.

This method returns an object containing the transaction signature and a result. The 
result object contains the outcome of our transaction. If successful, the `err` inside 
this will be set to null otherwise it'll contain the error for the failed transaction.

By default, the SDK sets the `payer` and the `updateAuthority` property respecitvely 

> using the payer and signer identity of the Umi istance we created previously like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the payer and signer identity of the Umi instance we created previously like this:
```

```typescript
const { signature, result } = await createCollection(umi, {
  ...createCollectionArgs,
  payer: umi.payer.publickey,
  updateAuthority: umi.identity.publicKey,
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

#### Creating the Asset

The `create` method allows you to create a new Asset similarly to how is done for Collections

```typescript
const asset = generateSigner(umi)
console.log("\nAsset Address: ", asset.publicKey.toString())

const { signature, result } = await create(umi, {
  asset,
  name: 'My Asset',
  uri: assetUri,
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

> For this method there are two additional optional field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this method there are two additional optional fields:
```

> - the `owner` field that if not supplied gets defaulted to the signer identity of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `owner` field that if not supplied will default to the signer identity of the
```

Umi istance like this:

```typescript
const { signature, result } = await create(umi, {
  ...createArgs,
  owner: umi.identity.publicKey,
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

> - the `collection` field that it's needed only when we want to add the asset to a collection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the `collection` field is only needed when we want to add the asset to a Core Collection
```

```typescript
const asset = generateSigner(umi)
const collection = await fetchCollection(umi, publicKey("CORE_COLLECTION_ADDRESS"));

const { signature, result } = await create(umi, {
  asset,
  collection,
  name: 'My Asset',
  uri: assetUri,
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

> **Note**: once you add an Asset to a Collection you'll need to pass in a `CollectionV1` object in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: once you add an Asset to a Collection you'll need to pass in a `CollectionV1` object to
```

Author: Don't think here the to is better

const { signature, result } = await update(umi, {
  asset,
  collection,
  newUpdateAuthority: updateAuthority("Collection", [publicKey("NEW_CORE_COLLECTION_ADDRESS")])
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

**Note**: We can use the same method to add the Asset to a Collection if it isn't part of a 
collection currently.

A noted difference from the `token-metadata` program is that it not impossible to create an immutable 
`Asset` using the `create` method. The only way to make an asset immutable is to change the `updateAuthority` 
to `None` in a futher update.

```typescript
const asset = await fetchAsset(umi, publickey("CORE_ASSET_ADDRESS"));
const collection = await fetchCollection(umi, publicKey("CORE_ASSET_ADDRESS"));

const { signature, result } = await update(umi, {
  asset,
  collection,
  newUpdateAuthority: updateAuthority("None")
}).sendAndConfirm(umi, { send: { commitment: "finalized" } });
```

**Note**: any fields you don't include in the call to `updateV1` will stay the same, by design.

### Lab

In this lab, we'll go through the steps to create a Core Asset using the Metaplex Umi framework, 

> add the Asset to the Collection and update its metadata after the fact. By the end, you will 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
add the Asset to the Collection and update its metadata in subsequent transactions. By the end, you will 
```

> have a basic understanding of how to use the Metaplex Umi and the `mpl-core` library to interact 

Reviewer: now it's mpl-core library (package, SDK). Need to unify some of these names.

```typescript
import {
  createCollection,
  mplCore,
} from "@metaplex-foundation/mpl-core";
import {
  createGenericFile,
  generateSigner,
  keypairIdentity,
  percentAmount,
  sol,
} from "@metaplex-foundation/umi";
import { createUmi } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi-bundle-defaults";
import { irysUploader } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi-uploader-irys";
import {
  airdropIfRequired,
  getExplorerLink,
  getKeypairFromFile,
} from "@solana-developers/helpers";
import { clusterApiUrl, Connection, LAMPORTS_PER_SOL } from "@solana/web3.js";
import { promises as fs } from "fs";
import * as path from "path";
```

Connect to devnet, load a user and Airdrop some SOL if needed:

```typescript
// create a new connection to Solana's devnet cluster
const connection = new Connection(clusterApiUrl("devnet"));

// load keypair from local file system
// See https://github.com/solana-developers/helpers?tab=readme-ov-file#get-a-keypair-from-a-keypair-file
// assumes that the keypair is already generated using `solana-keygen new`
const user = await getKeypairFromFile();

await airdropIfRequired(
  connection,
  user.publicKey,
  1 * LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
  0.1 * LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,

> );

Reviewer: Umi has an airdropper

Author: I know, but knowing them they would want to use their proprietary function instead of creating an if to check that the keypair needs lamports.

console.log("Loaded user:", user.publicKey.toBase58());
```

Create a new Umi instance, assign it the loaded keypair, load the `mplCore` 
to interact with the metadata program and `irysUploader` to upload our files.

```typescript
// create a new connection to Solana's devnet cluster
const umi = createUmi(connection)
  .use(mplCore())
  .use(irysUploader());

// convert to umi compatible keypair
const umiKeypair = umi.eddsa.createKeypairFromSecretKey(user.secretKey);

// assigns a signer to our umi instance, and loads the MPL metadata program and Irys uploader plugins.
umi.use(keypairIdentity(umiKeypair))
```

Download the assets and collection image from the links below and save them 
inside your working directory:

1. Collection image:
   https://github.com/solana-developers/professional-education/blob/main/labs/metaplex-umi/collection.png

2. Asset image:
   https://github.com/solana-developers/professional-education/blob/main/labs/metaplex-umi/nft.png

We will use these images as our collection and asset cover images respectively.

> We will use Irys as our storage provider, and since Metaplex conveniently created the 

Reviewer: Possibly best we just say there is a Irys uploader plugin rather than `we created it`

console.log(`Collection address is:  ${collection.publicKey}`);
console.log("✅ Finished successfully!");
```

We advise using [esrun](https://www.npmjs.com/package/esrun) to run the scripts because 
it allows you to use top level await without having to wrap your code inside asynchronous 
function.

Run the `create-metaplex-core-collection.ts` script

```
npx esrun create-metaplex-core-collection.ts
```

The output should look like this:

```
% npx esrun create-metaplex-core-collection.ts

Loaded user: 2YkGRHjwD3jqcu4ie6pL9Axpdx5AKa6KDyj8bF473Vk5
image uri: https://arweave.net/EBRzcUrhbiTfSnx2oD1SZacGMbq2WeFtLUWSD5tAuP7
Collection offchain metadata URI: https://gateway.irys.xyz/HTK7UZsUqiVcnZ9ez2eNKPQLiU3Xg1hyic1ghwj6gXXE
Collection: https://explorer.solana.com/address/ACJgjrstigNsgukPuZWZay1L2DXeJPwTn6EyxB5hwWrK?cluster=devnet
Collection address is:  ACJgjrstigNsgukPuZWZay1L2DXeJPwTn6EyxB5hwWrK
✅ Finished successfully!
```

Congratulations! You've created a Metaplex Core Collection. Check this out on Solana Explorer 
using the URL above!

Keep the Collection addres since we're going to use it in the next step.

#### 2. Creating a Core Asset and adding it to the Collection

> We'll now create a Core Assets that's a member of the Collection we just Created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll now create a Core Asset that's a member of the Collection we just Created.
```

look the same as the previous file, with slightly different imports:

```typescript
import { 
  mplCore,
  create, 
  fetchCollection 
} from '@metaplex-foundation/mpl-core'
import {
  createGenericFile,
  generateSigner,
  keypairIdentity,
  publicKey as UMIPublicKey
} from "@metaplex-foundation/umi";
import { createUmi } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi-bundle-defaults";
import { irysUploader } from "@metaplex-foundation/umi-uploader-irys";
import {
  airdropIfRequired,
  getExplorerLink,
  getKeypairFromFile,
} from "@solana-developers/helpers";
import { clusterApiUrl, Connection, LAMPORTS_PER_SOL } from "@solana/web3.js";
import { promises as fs } from "fs";
import * as path from "path";

// create a new connection to Solana's devnet cluster
const connection = new Connection(clusterApiUrl("devnet"));

// load keypair from local file system
// assumes that the keypair is already generated using `solana-keygen new`
const user = await getKeypairFromFile();
console.log("Loaded user:", user.publicKey.toBase58());

await airdropIfRequired(
  connection,
  user.publicKey,
  1 * LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,
  0.1 * LAMPORTS_PER_SOL,

> );

Reviewer: Umi has an airdropper

umi.use(keypairIdentity(umiKeypair))
```

We can then put out files into Irys:

```typescript
const assetImagePath = "asset.png";

const buffer = await fs.readFile(assetImagePath);
let file = createGenericFile(buffer, assetImagePath, {
  contentType: "image/png",
});

// upload image and get image uri
const [image] = await umi.uploader.upload([file]);
console.log("image uri:", image);

const metadata = {
  name: 'My Asset',
  description: "My Asset Description",
  image,
  external_url: 'https://example.com',
  attributes: [
    {
      trait_type: 'trait1',
      value: 'value1',
    },
    {
      trait_type: 'trait2',
      value: 'value2',
    },
  ],
  properties: {
    files: [
      {
        uri: image,
        type: 'image/jpeg',
      },
    ],
    category: 'image',
  },
}

// upload offchain json using irys and get metadata uri
const uri = await umi.uploader.uploadJson(metadata);
console.log("Asset offchain metadata URI:", uri);
```

Then we create an Asset and we add it to the Collection we just created:

```typescript
// Substitute in your collection NFT address from create-metaplex-nft-collection.ts

> const collection = await fetchCollection(umi, UMIPublicKey("YOUR_COLLECTION_ADDRESS_HERE"))

Reviewer: UMIPublicKey can be tidied up if we are removing web3js

const uri = await umi.uploader.uploadJson(metadata);
console.log("Asset offchain metadata URI:", uri);

// Fetch the accounts using the address
const asset = await fetchAsset(umi, UMIPublicKey("YOUR_ASSET_ADDRESS_HERE"))
const collection = await fetchCollection(umi, UMIPublicKey("YOUR_COLLECTION_ADDRESS_HERE"))

await update(umi, {
  asset,
  collection,
  name: "My Updated Asset",
  uri,
}).sendAndConfirm(umi);

let explorerLink = getExplorerLink("address", asset.publicKey, "devnet");
console.log(`Asset updated with new metadata URI: ${explorerLink}`);

console.log("✅ Finished successfully!");
```

Run `npx esrun update-metaplex-core-asset.ts`. You should see something like:

```
% npx esrun update-metaplex-core-asset.ts

Loaded user: 2YkGRHjwD3jqcu4ie6pL9Axpdx5AKa6KDyj8bF473Vk5
image uri: https://arweave.net/DtdF6YbCbSV6y5eeet6Hk2oJq2afFwKzZmrLpfFkyLym
Asset offchain metadata URI: https://gateway.irys.xyz/DQysfQZ9CuGveSYDWKZwhjUX7VnRSzfaPtvojo44rhJw
Asset updated with new metadata URI: https://explorer.solana.com/address/BXfRBtgVRmEnwQaLqCAproeuSMNdkgWYptHvjvHekHht?cluster=devnet
✅ Finished successfully!
```

Inspect the updated NFT on Solana Explorer!

> Congratulations! You've successfully learned how to use the Metaplex SDK to create, update, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've successfully learned how to use the Metaplex SDK to create, update, 
```

Metaplex SDK? Whats that? MPL Core SDK?

and add an Asset to a Collection. That's everything you need to build out your own collection 
for just about any use case. You could build a new event ticketing platform, revamp a retail 
business membership program, or even digitize your school's student ID system. The possibilities 
are endless!

### Challenge

The steps covered above for creating an NFT would be incredibly tedious to
execute for thousands of NFTs in one go. Many providers, including Metaplex,
Magic Eden, and Tensor have so-called 'fair launch' tools that take care of
minting large quantities of NFTs and ensuring they are sold within the
parameters set by their creators. Dive into fair launch platforms on the
[Digital Collectables](https://solana.com/ecosystem/explore?categories=digital%20collectibles)
page. This hands-on experience will not only reinforce your understanding of the
tools but also boost your confidence in your ability to use them effectively in

> the future.

Reviewer: This should probably include candy machine too
